Welcome back.
It's time for a fun little exercise.
Well I mean resumes are never fun but I'm going to try and make this fun.
I might succeed might not.
Let's have a look.
OK.
Before we get started I have a resume cheat sheet for you that we're going to go to and this is what
you can do.
I've simplified everything so that you do these items and you're already above average with your resume
and you're going to see some increase in the number of interviews you're going to get.
But before we get into that I want to show you again this Web site that we already talked about the
resume maker online.
Now I like this Web site because it shows you what part the interviewer actually cares about or the
recruiter actually cares about.
If you look over here we see that we see the title we see professional experience maybe a bit of education
and then the left hand side.
I don't think you need birthdate or nationality but you get the idea.
A recruiter usually only checks out the main points and from there if they're interested in you they'll
read further but you want to focus on these main points where a recruiters eyes are going to be drawn.
So that right away within the first second they see that you are a qualified candidate.
So keeping that in mind let's go over the points.
All right.
So I have the cheat sheet here and I have here a demo resume that I just randomly found online.
Now before we get started here.
Well you make this a little bit bigger so you can see you can pause the video here and have a look at
this resume and see how you might want to improve it or you can even bring up your own resume so that
as we go along with each point you can critique your resume.
All right so pause the video.
Otherwise I'm going to get started.
Now this resume Chichi the first item on it is does it use a pre-designed resume template.
And if we take a look at this resume.
Well I mean it looks like somebody just wrote it in Microsoft ward with the most basic font and it doesn't
look very pretty right away from a recruiter looking at this.
I'm not going to be impressed and I'm going to associate low skills with the person that doesn't have
a well-designed resume.
So again you might want to use a tool like the one I showed you that has pre-designed templates so everything
looks good and professional so we can fix that resume that way.
Nice and easy fix.
What about the next one.
Make the resume fit on one page.
I've said this numerous times and you know what this person has the resume on one page.
That's a nice easy one.
Good job.
What about the next one.
Include words from job description.
If I go into this resume I don't know what this person was applying to.
But again the very first items which is what a recruiter is going to look at is going to read.
I wish to obtain a web graphic design position where my unique technical and creative experience will
be valuable.
Having worked in media I am familiar with the fast paced environment keeping tight deadlines and maybe
some technical knowledge and work experience.
But just by reading this resume I have no idea what this person is applying to.
I just see that while they're looking for a web graphic design position but it's not very specific.
We want to include words from the actual job description.
If they're looking for a front end developer make sure that the front end developer may be Javascript
is included in your objectives or technical knowledge right at the beginning.
Again key words are those words that people are going to see.
Recruiters are going to see or even machines that are reading your resume are going to see and say oh
this person is the type of candidate that we want.
Let's look at the next one.
Include company name you're applying to.
This is so simple to do.
And right away puts you above most resumes you see over here that this person has really included that
ideally you've added to the objective or maybe summary or the title the company name or something specific
to that company that you want to improve maybe the company is looking for engineers who can improve
their infrastructure well should definitely have those awards.
And that phrase in your objective All right off to the next one.
Does your first item on your resume reflect what you are looking for or what they are looking for the
companies looking for.
Again this kind of goes hand-in-hand with the job description and the company name but your technical
knowledge your objective your experience should be.
Exactly.
Especially the very first items should be exactly what they're looking for.
Again if you don't include those words and you give them something random like this person has a company
name here and a company link of some that they've worked in the past.
Well I don't really care and if I look over here at the first item that I see is a of mine if they're
applying for a web graphic design position issue most probably not the most important here item here.
So again whoops I can't I don't really care about that.
All right.
Off to the next point.
We're flying through this.
It's not that bad is it experienced titles demonstrate value.
Probably the most poorly worded sentence I have come up with.
But let me explain what it means.
The experience title should demonstrate value.
That is the work experience which is usually the main part of the resume should show that you provide
value.
If I go into this person's resume the first sentence I'm going to read is that a company's name that
they've worked out that I've never heard of web M.D. which is a big web site so I've heard of them and
then I see web producer.
And then again responsibility includes updating a shemale content doesn't really demonstrate a lot of
value here.
Instead you want to make sure that your work experience shows a value that is instead of having the
company name here.
Unless it's a big company like Amazon Netflix or Alibaba something with a lot of good recognition I
don't really care about the company I care about what you did.
Web producer that sounds a lot more impressive than this company name so this should be bolded and highlighted
production coater.
Again more important that web and the art director get more important.
So you want to make sure that that's highlighted that those are the key things that shows you are valuable.
Another thing is if you look at the sentence over here this HMO part doesn't sound impressive but the
second part cropping retouching optimizing photos for creation of thumbnails and other images.
I mean you could reword that and make that sound better such as improving performance of the Web site
by optimizing assets such as photos having those force items demonstrate value is very very important.
And this is actually over here as well.
When we go to technical knowledge we see that the second item is M-S office Microsoft Office.
I mean everybody knows how to use Word.
It's not very impressive.
Maybe adding Adobe Creative Suite.
Photoshop Illustrator flash at the beginning.
If you're applying for a web design graphic position is more important than Microsoft Office.
And again even the sentence I've been hand-coding Ishmael for nine years says for four years.
Web master done ph be my skill.
Why is that so small and underneath everything.
A recruiter is going to see this without reading this full sentence.
That's probably the most valuable part of the resume.
This should probably be up over here again making those key items.
Remember this image that I showed you the very highlighted items the most important thing.
All right.
I think I've talked about that point enough.
Let's go to the next one.
Do you have an online link.
Again if you're applying to be a web graphic design designer and for people taking this course you're
most likely some sort of an engineer.
You should have some sort of an online link to your get help profile.
Maybe blog posts maybe Web site portfolio he needs to be at the very top.
Next one remove the word hi I wish to obtain I am familiar.
I was hired.
I meet all those sentences doesn't really tell me anything.
You're adding extra weight again.
You only have a few seconds to impress a recruiter and you adding these extra items that we don't really
care about.
As a recruiter we want to know right away what you can offer us what type of asset you would be.
I have been.
We don't really care about that.
Instead legist say something like professional web graphic designer with five years of experience.
To the point right away.
Again we don't care about.
I have been coding or any of those eyes get to the point right away.
Speak in the third person if you want to just make sure right away the first sentence that they read
are the key words and important items on the list.
Let's look at the next one no buzzwords describing how great you are.
And you know what.
This person definitely undersells themselves.
I think this resume could be a lot better.
This person definitely does not over inflate themselves.
But what I mean by buzzwords is don't put garbage on your resume.
That doesn't mean anything.
So words or phrases such as thought leader passionate entrepreneur and sometimes people actually think
negatively on these of terms don't tell the recruiter him or her what to think about you.
And we want to focus on using something called action words and that's actually the next point.
Instead of using vague terms that don't really mean anything.
We want action words.
What did you do and what were the results.
And you can be really creative here.
Every time you do something with code see how you add it to your resume as an action and an end result.
It's very easy to just list your responsibilities kind of like this person has done.
But what did you actually do.
And I mean this sentence is actually pretty impressive over here the content or not this one over here
testing the content management system and seeing that migration to the news servers is running smoothly.
I mean that sounds a lot more impressive than coding as G-mail web pages actual words perhaps should
be testing deploying and observing content management systems to production servers maybe some monitoring
there but you want to show exactly what you did and then perhaps even say what were the results that
the customer experience improved.
Or that more customers came to the Web site because of this transition to production servers.
And again this translates into the next point we want to measure everything in terms of impact and don't
just describe your responsibilities.
We want to show off what we've actually done for a company like web M.D..
Ideally you have some sort of numbers such as.
BI How much did you improve the website performance by optimizing the photos and thumbnails.
How much did the traffic of web M.D improve because of this migration to New servers.
By having numbers it's a lot more tangible.
As a recruiter I can see the impact that you had on the business because let's be honest your companies
hire people that are assets that improve the company and create more revenue for them.
So if you're able to demonstrate that in a past job that you've actually here are the numbers.
This is how I improved the company.
Well then you for sure are going to be a good hire.
All right let's talk about the next one we're almost done here.
Hang with me here I know resumes not the funnest topic but I promise you it's going to get better and
better.
So technical knowledge skills should include what they are looking for only show years.
If it is impressive.
So over here this person when I say years I guess I'm saying hey if you worked at this company only
for a month or two months.
Well that's not very impressive.
But if you have a certain number of years of experience this person has nine years that they've been
coding on HD Ammal CSSA for four years.
I mean that's nine years of experience so you're going to have to mention G-mail or CSSA that you can
just say that you're a weap and graphic designer with nine years of experience.
I mean that sounds impressive.
And you also want to make sure that these technical skills is what they're looking for.
I doubt they're looking for M-S office or laptop PC hardware knowledge.
They're probably looking for Photoshop Illustrator maybe SS Maybe BHP ask you all.
Maybe it's a react.
J Yes position you are applying for.
You want to make sure that you show up those skills.
And if you have many years of experience with them make sure you include that number.
If you don't have that many years of experience just don't show the number.
You don't need to tell them everything.
All right.
Last two items include only sections items that are impressive.
Experienced projects education technical skills.
This just says hey only include items that a recruiter really cares about.
For example if I was an intern at a flower shop five years ago as a recruiter maybe recruiting for a
software engineering role I don't really care about your flower experience.
I mean hey maybe some people do but I doubt that they do only include things that are relevant or can
be and directly improve your odds of getting a job.
You don't want to just fill out a resume just to fill out a resume.
If it doesn't actually add to your overall picture.
Now this person does a pretty good job.
You can see that most of their experiences technical knowledge so that's good but we see over here that
usually you want to include experience.
Maybe you projects education and timing skills anything outside of that.
I mean you can add it but only if you think it'll improve the way the recruiter sees you.
But those four categories should be enough.
And then finally everybody knows this but I had it on here just in case.
No typos or bad grammar.
If you're not a native English speaker or a native speaker of your language make sure you get somebody
to double check your resume that there's no typos but everybody knows that.
All right there was a lot I know I know but hey I'm excited.
Just as you that we're almost.
We're pretty much done with the resume section so we can get into the fun technical part.
But you know people have written books on the topic of how to write resumes.
There's so many things so many minor things they can adjust to make them important.
But if you follow these steps and I'm going to give you this sheet right after this lesson you've pretty
much done 90 percent of the work that is important for you to get a job.
After that you should be focusing on other things such as improving your skills as a developer.
So by just following this simple list I guarantee your percentage of getting interviews is going to
increase at least with resumes.
That's it.
Hopefully by looking at this and your own resume and looking at these checkpoints you can see how you
can improve things.
It's all about wording and how you can get the recruiter to see the top parts to buy you the good things
about you at the very beginning so that it catches their eye and they say hmm I'm going to keep reading
or I'm going to give this person an interview so I can find out more.
Now that's enough for resumes.
There are books written on the topic but you have to remember that there's simply a way to get interviews
and such.
Treat them that way.
Don't overcomplicate them.
But I hope you get the general goal here.
Every word in her resume she convinced the recruiter why they should hi.
I'll see in the next video.